This document gives general instructions for producing a portfolio.
The portfolio is to be submitted via Turnitin.  I have uploaded a
couple of portfolios from last year to show what I'm looking for;
these are available under the 'resources' tab.  These portfolios are
pretty good but not perfect.

Recall that the idea of a portfolio is: "procure a small dataset from
your everyday life and apply the methods of this course to it".  A
good size of dataset is say 20 lines and 4-7 columns: note that you
must have data arranged so that each row is an observation.  People in
the past have used data from their hobbies, their favourite sports
teams, their work, home life, and so on.  Small and personal is good;
I am not looking for anything deep or profound.  One student had a
spreadsheet of a particular video game that he played with his partner
(each row was a single game); another used a dataset of time in
minutes of phone calls to her mother and friends (each row was a phone
call).  Another student dug up carrots from his garden and weighed
them (each row was a carrot; he measured their weight and length and
colour and number of leaves); lots of people used travel time (on the
bus or train) to college, in which case each row was one day's travel,
including morning travel time and afternoon travel time.  One recent
portfolio analysed marks out of 10 for different aspects of the coffee
shops in Auckland's CBD: each row was a coffee shop and the columns
were things like scores for flavour of coffee, decor, music, and
attractiveness of the barista.

A good portfolio will use a range of techniques to analyse the data.
I'd expect some scattergraphs and linear regression, some discrete
tests such as Pearson's chi-squared.  It would be very very good if
people tested for counts being Poisson.  Remember to state your nulls!
A likelihood function would be good here, as would a Bayesian
analysis.

For Bayesian analysis:

For discrete hypotheses, use two or three sensible and meaningful
hypotheses; for prior probabilities use justified (or at least
sensible) values.  For continuous hypotheses state your prior and
posterior PDF.

* State and justify your hypotheses and prior probabilities/PDF clearly
* State your data and likelihood functions clearly
* State your posterior probabilities or PDF
* Interpret your posterior PMF/PDF


A good portfolio will have a good dataset which is amenable to
analysis using the methods of the course!  I am looking for your
ability to choose and explain a suitable dataset.  Remember that I
will not necessarily be familiar with your dataset.  If it is about a
particular cricket team, for example, then I will not know who they
are and you have to tell me about them and why you are interested in
them.  If you are studying the temperature of your fishtanks, I want
to see a photo of them so I can understand your dataset in context.

I want to see people calculate p-values for their different tests and
*interpret* them!  What does the null mean in the context of your
dataset?  How do you interpret a rejection of the null?  What have you
learned about your data?

In the introduction, include a picture and explain what the dataset is
about, what your connection to it is, and why anyone---in particular
Robin---might be interested in it.  Here are some example good and bad
introductions:

BAD: I will analyse a Cloud9 dataset for statistical patterns.

GOOD: "Counterstrike" is a popular first-person perspective video game
which has a world-wide following.  Competitive counterstrike matches
<insert picture here> may have prizes exceeding US$10million.  Cloud9
is one of the most successful counterstrike syndicates of all time; I
have followed them since they formed in 2012.  Here I analyse a
dataset taken from one of Cloud9's most successful and influential
games in which they played FaZe Clan at Boston 2018.

The BAD sentence gives me no information to go on.  See how the GOOD
one introduces your datast to a person who has never heard of either
the team or the sport and provides motivation for me to be interested
in it too.  The BAD one leaves me clueless.

BAD:  My data refer to coffeeshops in Auckland

GOOD: Coffeeshops form part of the urban environment of modern
Auckland and here I analyse a sample of 10 coffeeshops for quality of
coffee, atmosphere, price, and attractiveness of the barista. <insert
picture of favourite coffeshop here>.  I worked for Starbucks in the
1990s, and am interested in how coffee-shops have changed since then.

The BAD sentence above does not put the study in context as it does
not tell me why I should be interested in coffee shops.  The GOOD
sentence shows me something of your thinking about coffeeshops in
general, and tells me explicitly why you have a personal connection to
this topic.

BAD: table 1 shows fishtank data.

GOOD: Tropical fishkeeping is a popular and inexpensive hobby for
thousands of people.  However, many fish species are very sensitive to
temperature variations and it is important to control tank
temperatures for fish well-being <figure>.  Last year I lost three
fish due to the cold and subsequently bought an aquarium heater; I am
keen to understand whether it works.  Table 1 shows my dataset, of
which each row corresponds to one day and the columsn show temperature
in the morning and evening....

A good portfolio will have a summary section which picks out
interesting or otherwise meaningful findings.  Do not feel that
significance is needed for a good summary.

GOOD: I have analysed 35 DeathChainsawKiller (tm) games between me and
my partner for statistical patterns.  Although I was expecting to win
more games when using GiantBashingClub weapons than NukularChem
weapons, there is no strong statistical evidence for this being the
case.  However, I did find that morning games were statistically more
likely to end in a draw than evening games (Fisher's exact test,
p=0.043), probably because my partner works night-shifts and is tired
in the morning.

GOOD: I analysed a dataset of 14 of my cosplay friends for the number
of wigs they own as a function of age and gender.  No strong
statistical trends were found.  However, I did discover that the wigs
were not distributed evenly among my friends (chi-square, p=0.023),
probably due to a single outlier: Michael has a very large number of
wigs, being a wardrobe manager.


Good portfolios show the first five or six lines of their datasets, to
give readers an understanding of the variables used and the extent of
the data.  They use inferential techniques to learn about the data and
make clear interpretations.  The document is structured clearly and
the writing is terse and compelling.  I am not particularly looking
for formal scholarly writing, but the wording should be clear and
unambiguous.

A good portfolio will have a short conclusions section.  A conclusions
section covers things like what aspects of the analysis were most
surprising or unexpected.  What have you learned about your data?
General comments such as how a statistical mindset has helped you
understand your dataset are also good here.  There should be nothing
in the conclusions that is not supported by the main body of your
portfolio.



Schedule: representative comments for grades A,B,C

Grade A: dataset meets brief, appropriate picture included.  First 5
lines of data given.  A structured, engaging sequence of correctly
applied statistical analyses given, including R code, which are
interpreted correctly.  A wide range of nulls considered and a wide
set of appropriate visualizations given.  Conclusions clear and
supported by the text.

Grade B: dataset arguably meets brief.  Analyses mostly correct, but
occasional lapses in application [e.g. applying Pearson chi-square to
non-count data].  Material given in unclear or unmotivated order.
Many nulls considered but some sensible nulls missing.  Conclusions
sketchy.

Grade C: Analysis includes some correct results but many flawed
calculations.  Material given in haphazard or unjustifed sequence;
repetitions given.  p-values misinterpreted.  Regression analysis
presented with no scattergraph.  conclusions weak or unjustified. 
