matpmdb rubric

The document should be prepared using Rmarkdown format.  I am not
looking for formal scholarly writing, but the wording should be clear
and unambiguous.  There will be an individual five-minute conversation
discussing the portfolio which is your chance to demonstrate your work
to me.

The canvas submission should include four files:

1.  The Rmd file
2.  The dataset in tab-separated txt format
3.  A jpeg file illustrating the origin of the dataset
4.  The compiled PDF as produced by "knit"


Introduction (20 marks)

Brief description of the dataset used; details of its origin, and why
it is important to you.  Good portfolios show the first five or six
lines of their datasets, to give readers an understanding of the
variables used and the extent of the data. 


Methods and results  (40 marks)

A good portfolio will include:

* t-test
* Linear regression
* Fisher's exact test
* A log-likelihood/support function


For the first three, the test should be appropriate to the aspect of
the dataset considered.  State your null and alternative hypotheses
clearly: these should be meaningful in context.  Use of one-sided or
two-sided tests should be appropriate and justified.  P-values should
be given and interpreted both statistically and in the context of the
data.

A log-likelihood function for a parameter of interest should be given
and the credible range interpreted in context.

Conclusions (20 marks)

A conclusions section covers things like what aspects of the analysis
were most surprising or unexpected.  What have you learned about your
data?  General comments such as how a statistical mindset has helped
you understand your dataset are also good here.  There should be
nothing in the conclusions that is not supported by the main body of
your portfolio.


Spoken component (20 marks)

The spoken component will be held via a Teams meeting at a time to be
arranged.  



Schedule: representative comments for grades A,B,C

Distinction: dataset meets brief, appropriate picture included.  First 5
lines of data given.  A structured, engaging sequence of correctly
applied statistical analyses given, including R code, which are
interpreted correctly.  Conclusions clear and supported by the text.
Conversation reveals in-depth familiarity with dataset, visualisations
and statistical analysis used.

Merit: dataset arguably meets brief.  Analyses mostly correct, but
occasional lapses in application [e.g. applying discreted techniques
to non-count data].  Material given in unclear or unmotivated order.
Most obvious nulls not considered.  Conclusions sketchy.  Conversation
shows some familiarity with dataset and analyses used.

Pass: Analysis includes some correct results but uses flawed
calculations.  Material given in haphazard or unjustifed sequence;
repetitions given.  p-values misinterpreted.  Regression analysis
presented with no scattergraph.  Conclusions weak or unjustified.
Conversation shows little familiarity with dataset or structure of
portfolio; and flawed understanding of statistical analysis presented.
